Hey guys, it's time for an extra challenge, because you already possess
all of the knowledge you need in order to create these railings. So
I've given you an example, down at the bottom. Remember this is
your project, you can make the railings as tall as narrow as
wide as you want, but do follow them through all the way from
the ground, all the way up to the building on the top.
Pause the video now and give that a go!
OK guys, let's hop straight over into Blender!
We have our pyramid here and we've got our ramp, so let's
give it some railings. Now I know that I'm going to be
using the two edges of the ramp to create some extra geometry,
however I know as I extrude over
the top of this, I'm going to end up with a face underneath our faces.
So the first thing I'm going to do is select that
top face and get rid of it. So we're left with a
nice hole in our model but that's OK. The next thing we need to
do is select an edge, and I'm noticing the direction of the arrow on
the Y axis, so I know I'm extruding along the Y axis
and that will come out. It looks like I've still got snapping turned on. No need to
undo everything, I just do Shift and Tab to stop that, and I
want to move it in. I don't know, I'm glancing down at the lower-left
to just have a quick look at the numbers. 0.2,
0.2 feels about right, so I'm going to go for 0.2
and I'm going to do the same for this. Now noticing the direction of the arrow again, I'm going to
extrude but this time again on the Y axis, but this time it's
going to be a minus number and it's going to be...I do want them to be equal, so it's going to be
- 0.2. And then, finally we just need
to join these two edges up to form another face.
I'm going to select all four to make sure it knows exactly where I want
to put the face and nowhere else, and I'm going to press F. Oh dear!
I didn't want to do that! Let's undo that, because this
edge at the top, it doesn't run all the way nor does
that one, so that should have been fine. However, it appears to have created a double
face. So let's just do this edge and this edge and press F.
There we go, that's exactly what we need! Finally, just in case
I've created some loose geometry
in there, I'm going to select my entire model and just Remove Doubles.
And I've removed 4 vertices in that case.
Alright, so we know need to...we've got this here so we now need to create the railings
themselves. So in Face Select Mode I'm going to select the two
outside faces, and I'm going to extrude them up
but not like that, actually up according to the world which is
a global up, so Z. There we go, that's exactly what I want!
And I don't want them too tall, because that would look ridiculous. In fact, the taller those
are the smaller this pyramid looks. Now it looks like a kids toy,
now it looks epic and impossible to walk up. So that looks like it's going to be about
0.4, 0.5, or something like that, so I'm going to go about 0.5.
I'm happy with that! And finally, we need to bring the top of the railings,
so no one falls off of this giant thing of course. Um..So I'm going to
select those two faces there. I don't know if I've got the ability to select that one. No I'm not zoomed in
enough. There we go! So these two faces are selected, I need to
place them up against one of these faces
here. So I'm going to make sure snapping is turned on, I'm going to go to Face
Select, I'm going to press E to extrude, and I'm going to select
anywhere on this face, and there we go we have our
railings! How did you guys get on? Did you get to that part there? Did
you have any challenges whilst doing that? I hope you were successful,
and I shall see you in the next lecture!